Box plots are good for quickly visualizing the spread of data.
Its median, its first and third quartiles,
as in data points in the 25th and 75th percentage,
its outliers, and its total range.
Here, the middle line in each box represents the median sales per segment.
The edges of each box represent the first and third quartiles,
and the whiskers or lines sticking out of each box represent the max and min ranges.
Histograms are good for visualizing distributions of
continuous variables or variables that are sequential to one another in terms of value.
In this example, we plot out the passenger counts per lift ride on the x-axis,
each representing a histogram bin of one passenger count,
two passenger counts, three passenger counts, and so forth.
On the y-axis, we plot out how many rides
fell to each bin based on the count of passengers per ride.
Bar charts may look similar to histograms,
where instead good for visualizing comparisons of discrete variables.
Here, we plot out librarian employment on the y-axis per state,
which is reflected on the x-axis.
Bar charts are different from histograms where
the x-axis is not a bin or range of values,
nor is it ascending or descending in terms of value.
Rewind the clock and say we're back in
2003 and you're the first product manager for a company that's
starting up an online marketplace that pairs up
hosts with visitors for temporary homestays.
You're pairing up with the executive team to gather existing market trends to convince
investors why they should provide your company with
an additional fundraise to finish out the development of your product.
In this example, we have hotel booking data.
To plot out total bookings split out by room type,
which is a distinct data-continuous dimension,
we'll plot it out in a bar chart.
Peg the rooms book measure as a row,
and peg the reserved room type dimension as a column.
Ensure that you have a bar chart selected,
and here we could see that room type A,
room to the kitchens,
is book the most frequently probably due to supply.
Now, let's see how many days in advance users tend to
book compared to their arrival date in intervals of five.
As in, how many people book one through five days in advance compared to
how many people book 6-10 days versus 11-15 days, and so forth.
We could do this best through a histogram.
We remove all current dimensions and measures and peg the lead time measure as
a column and ensure that you have a histogram selected as your chart type.
The bin size or how big each histogram bar is is set to a pre-assigned value at default.
Well, we ought to change it to five.
To do that, take the auto-created dimension representing
lead time bins and edit the size of each bin to five.
From here, we can see that the lead time forms a long tail distribution to the right,
terminating to about bookings 400 days in advance,
starting to flatline at bookings 100 days in advance with
a relatively higher peak for bookings 0-15 days in advance.
Now, if we want to quickly track the distribution metrics like median, quartiles,
and upper and lower bounds of the number of hotel bookings on a weekly basis,
or want to leverage visualizing the data on a box plot,
take the booking counts measure and peg it as a row.
Now, take the arrival date week number dimension,
and place it as a mark.
Be sure to select the box and whisker as the chart type.
We could see here that the median sits around 2400,
with the slightly longer tail heading to the left,
or lower values of booking counts,
indicating more weeks of significantly lower bookings
compared to a more contained or predictable range of weeks with higher bookings.